{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red5\green99\blue193;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c1961\c38824\c75686;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\sl259\slmult1\sa160\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs22 \cf0 1.	Create a new column called \'93status\'94 in the rental table that uses a case statement to indicate if a film was returned late, early, or on time. \
\
SELECT film.title,  --alias the count of number of films\
	CASE\
		WHEN DATE_PART('day', return_date - rental_date) < rental_duration THEN 'Returned Early'\
		WHEN DATE_Part('day', return_date - rental_date) = rental_duration THEN 'Returned on Time'\
		ELSE 'Returned Late' END AS status\
			--create criteria to see when a film is returned, based on rental duration and the difference in days of when the film was returned\
{\listtext	    	}--alias as Status\
FROM film\
JOIN inventory\
ON film.film_id=inventory.film_id --join film and inventory table\
JOIN rental\
ON inventory.inventory_id = rental.inventory_id --join rental and inventory table\
ORDER BY film.title; --group by return Status\
\
2.	Show the total payment amounts for people who live in Kansas City or Saint Louis. \
\
SELECT CONCAT(first_name,' ', last_name) AS cust_name, SUM(amount) AS cust_amt, city\
FROM payment\
INNER JOIN customer\
ON payment.customer_id = customer.customer_id\
INNER JOIN address\
ON customer.address_id = address.address_id\
INNER JOIN city\
ON address.city_id = city.city_id\
WHERE city = 'Kansas City' OR city = 'Saint Louis'\
GROUP BY cust_name, city.city;\
\
3.	How many film categories are in each category? Why do you think there is a table for category and a table for film category?\
\
SELECT name, COUNT(film_category)\
FROM film_category\
INNER JOIN category\
ON film_category.category_id = category.category_id\
GROUP BY name;\
\
4.	Show a roster for the staff that includes their email, address, city, and country (not ids)\
\
SELECT first_name, last_name, email, address, country, city\
FROM staff\
JOIN address\
ON staff.address_id = address.address_id\
JOIN city\
ON city.city_id = address.city_id\
JOIN country\
ON country.country_id = city.country_id;\
\
5.	Show the film_id, title, and length for the movies that were returned from May 15 to 31, 2005\
SELECT film_id, title, length\
FROM film\
WHERE film_id IN\
	(SELECT film_id\
	 FROM rental\
	 JOIN inventory\
	 ON rental.inventory_id = inventory.inventory_id\
	 WHERE return_date BETWEEN '2005-05-15' AND '2005-05-31'\
	);\
6.	Write a subquery to show which movies are rented below the average price for all movies. \
\
SELECT title, rental_rate\
FROM film f\
JOIN \
(SELECT AVG(rental_rate) avg_rental_rate \
FROM film)\
AS f2 ON f.rental_rate < f2.avg_rental_rate\
ORDER BY rental_rate;\
\
7.	Write a join statement to show which moves are rented below the average price for all movies.\
\
8.	Perform an explain plan on 6 and 7, and describe what you\'92re seeing and important ways they differ.\
\
9.	With a window function, write a query that shows the film, its duration, and what percentile the duration fits into. This may help {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://mode.com/sql-tutorial/sql-window-functions/%22%20%5Cl%20%22rank-and-dense_rank"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://mode.com/sql-tutorial/sql-window-functions/#rank-and-dense_rank}} \
\
10.	In under 100 words, explain what the difference is between set-based and procedural programming. Be sure to specify which sql and python are. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl259\slmult1\sa160\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Bonus:\
Find the relationship that is wrong in the data model. Explain why it\'92s wrong. \
}